- We discussed issues with disclosure
through error handling and in a similar vein,
it's possible to expose too much information
in our log messages and system output.
We will start with log information
because it is much easier to inadvertently
cause issues in how you write log messages.
There are two classes of vulnerability in log messages.
The first is exposure of too much of your internal workings
and the second is too much information about your user.
When you write log messages
often you are providing detailed information
about what is actually happening in your system.
This data can be critical when issues arise
whether they're security focused or operational in nature.
But log messages can also provide too much information,
making your log aggregations an attack point.
Events are one of the things you should always log
whether they are user events of system events
such as authentication or task completions.
You should also always log errors,
especially in controls that are designed
to prevent attacks against your system
such as input and output validation errors.
Session events are also a great place
to provide detailed logging specifically on
creation, reanimation, or destruction.
In addition, you need general application flow
and connection details in your logs for operations.
While these things should appear in your log messages,
there are several things that should never appear.
Credentials and connection strings for backing services
like databases should never be logged.
Tokens for sessions or specific events likewise
have no place in your logs.
Encryption operations and keys as well as user passwords
also fall into this category.
Sensitive personal information like email addresses
shouldn't be in logs in plain text.
If this information can be useful in troubleshooting,
it belongs in the logs.
However, it should be hashed using a secure
cryptographic hash and then the hash is what
should be logged.
That way you could recreate the hash for troubleshooting
but not the reverse.
If the information has no value in troubleshooting,
it shouldn't be in the logs.
One useful strategy for logging
is to provide a set of methods that write to the logs
instead of directly calling the logging APIs.
This allows you to provide uniformity
and proper sanitization of the log data
to protect the system and the users
all while promoting good security and operational behavior.
Application output also needs to be inspected.
System output should be validated just like user input
to ensure that you are not creating risk
to other systems that may be downstream.
Data should be filtered and sanitized
so that the user sees what they need to
but not so much that an attacker could use it as an exploit.
Since many systems are used by both users
and other systems, the output can expose
other vulnerabilities and should be treated
as something to be protected.
These vulnerabilities really come down to
disclosing enough information to help you do your job
but not so much that you become the attack point.
It's a fine line but one
that a collaborating team can solve.